# 101. Guild Heirarchy

Juicy has a slightly unique guild structure. Below we'll describe our guilds structure in detail, as
well as some motivation on why it was created in this manner. A quick terminology distinction: the
set of class 2 Leads are simply referred to as "Leads", and all three classes in the heirarchy
defined here are referred to as "the leadership team". So below references to the "leadership team"
are meant to include Officers and Class Representatives as well.

# Sneeze's Juicy Manifesto

There are a couple major problems I wanted the guild structure to address when designing this guild:

1. "Class leads" being automatic officers is a flawed concept
    - If someone plays a class well, that's great. But playing a certain class has little to do with
      the ability to be a good leader and officer.
    - What happens if you have no responsible player that plays a certain class? You are faced with
      an impossible choice of promoting a bad player to the guild's most respected role, or having a
      missing leadership spot.
    - What if you have two really great players that play the same class? Then you have at least
      one great player who never gets to become a recognized officer, because there is simply no
      avenue for them to do so.
 1. Having too many "officers" makes it difficult to make big decisions
    - This is a huge and likely controversial bullet point. In short: I believe there are certain
      situations where it's better to have fewer people making decisions, rather than more. 
    - This definitely exeplifies the concept of "too many cooks in the kitchen", it can be
      paralyzing to a guild to have officers arguing forever over the final say.
    - Of course, that's not to say that most decisions need more that just a few people deciding.
      But there needs to be some mechanic in order to give a smaller number of people the ability to
      reach a consensus.
    - The guild should have enough officers as necessary to make informed and balanced decisions,
      but few enough such that agreements can be easily reached and with a clear direction.
    - Starting off with fewer members of leadership is also never a bad idea due to a very simple
      premise: it's much easier to add someone to the leadership team than it is to remove them.

So, what's the solution? Instead of having a leadership that's centralized around your class, it
should be centralized around *jobs*. Guilds have done this already by making certain people "raid
lead", "loot master", and more. But as seen above, we feel it's more flexible if the number of
people making guildwide decisions is not directly tied to the number of people helping perform these
jobs. This way adding and removing these jobs is much easier.

# The Three Overlapping Leadership Classes

Juicy's primary roles are split into three major classes: **Officers**, **Leads**, and **Class
Representatives**. It's important to note that these three classes are technically *mutually
exclusive*, meaning it's possible for someone (like Bill) to be all three at the same time. That
being said, a single player cannot be two types of leads, or a representative of two classes. That's
because it defats the purpose of these roles, which is to be highly specialized expert a single
domain.

## Class 1: Officers

Officers are the highest level decision makers in the guild. They exist to have the final say on
guild decisions, but can (and should) gather opinions for the guild's trusted council, such as the
rest of the guild's leadership team, to make quality decisions.

### Officer Qualification

Additional Officers are added and removed at the sole discretion of the GM, who themselves is an
officer. It's expected that Leads who are doing a great job should be first in line to become
officers, as they should represent the guild's most trusted and responsible members. The number of
officers is also up to the discretion of the GM, but should be kept low for reasons explained above
in the `Motivation` section.

### Officer Responsibilities

TODO: responsibilities of all officers

Some points to consider

### The Guild Master

All officers are expected to cooperatively execute the duties defined above. However, exactly one
officer should also be the designated Guild Master (GM). The Guild Master shares all the same
officer responsibilities defined above, but has the following additional responsibilities:

1. The GM must have an in-game character designated as guild master, and is therefore responsible
for executing ingame responsibilities unique to the GM as such. This includes tabard management,
in-game guild role management, and more.
    1. It's important to note that the *decisions* behind such changes should be weighed on by all
       officers, but the *execution* of such changes can be done only by the in-game GM, as this is
       a restriction of the game itself.
    1. The GM is expected to execute these abilities faithfully, and in a way that is agreed upon by
       other officers.
    1. The GM should represent the guild in communication channels that require an "official"
       representative from our guild's leadership.
    1. The GM is responsible for adding and removing other officers, and is expected to do so in a
       way that is not unreasonable and in agreement with other officers.

Some extra points to consider:

- If the GM wishes to step down, it's recommended they select an existing officer to take their
place. A new officer should be added to make up for this new opening.
- If a majority of the leadership team is unanimously unhappy with the current GM, the GM is
expected to heed their feedback and either implement their changes, or step down.

## Class 2: Leads

TODO: Leads are trusted members of the guild

### Brief Description

### Responsibilities

### Types of Leads

#### Raid Lead

The Raid Lead is one of our two leads focused on running a smooth and organized raid.

#### Test

## Class 3: Class Representative

### Description

### Responsibilities

### Types of Class Representatives